[FX-4784] Add GitLab integration guide (#545)
cobalthq/cobalt-product-public-docs: content/en/Integrations/IntegrationBuilder/configure-gitlab-integration.md

---
title: "Configure GitLab Integration"
linkTitle: "Configure GitLab Integration"
weight: 40
---

## Configure GitLab Integration for New Findings

To configure GitLab to create issues for new findings, you need three general steps:

1. Create a Cobalt connection.
2. Obtain a GitLab project access token.
3. Create a GitLab connection on the Cobalt platform.
4. Create a new recipe on the Cobalt platform.

> ### 1. Create a Cobalt Connection.
> 
> Find out how to create a Cobalt Connector [here](/integrations/integrationbuilder/#connection).

Reviewer: Should we remove this step based on https://cobalthq.slack.com/archives/C05EYKJ2JKX/p1727104986073709?thread_ts=1727101885.091429&cid=C05EYKJ2JKX?
```suggestion
```

### 2. Obtain a GitLab Project Access Token

> To obtain a GitLab project access token, go to your GitLab project settings, create a new project access token, and copy it to use later.

Author: I was thinking, but I was afraid to add specific GitLab-specific info which might change again later and it becomes a maintenance liability. 
My assumption is that the person who gets that deep into creating an access token should have a basic understanding of what permissions/roles fit their project to let a GitLab issue get created.

Once done, click "Connect".

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/08-connection-connected.png" alt="GitLab connection successful" %}}

### 4. Create a New Folder to Better Organize Your Recipes

Before creating a new recipe, it is better to create a new folder for all future GitLab recipes.

Go to the project page again, and click on the "Create" button on the top right. This time, choose "Folder".

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/09-new-folder.png" alt="Create a new folder" %}}

Give the new folder a name, and choose its location. Then click "Create Folder".

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/10-new-folder-data.png" alt="New folder data" %}}

Now you can see the new folder in the project.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/11-folder-created.png" alt="New folder created" %}}

Now we have the option in the folder to create a new recipe. But it is better to reuse an existing recipe.

### 5. Find an Existing Recipe

Go to the "Library" tab and search for the GitLab recipe.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/12-find-community-recipe.png" alt="Find GitLab recipe" %}}

> There is no GitLab recipe found for a new pentest finding, but a recipe for a DAST finding exists. We can use it as a base and customize it. Click on the recipe to see its details and click "Use this recipe".

Reviewer: My understanding is that a "pending fix" pentest finding and "detected" DAST finding are equivalent. They are both visible to the user when they look into the platform. For contrast, I'm pretty sure a "new" pentest finding is only visible to pentesters, so it wouldn't make much sense to have an issue created for these.
```suggestion
There are 2 recipes to choose from, depending on whether you're interested in creating GitLab issues to track pentest or DAST findings. We'll use the DAST recipe as a base and customize it. Click on the recipe to see its details and click "Use this recipe".
```

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/13-use-recipe.png" alt="DAST recipe" %}}

Choose to save the recipe in the folder you created earlier.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/14-use-recipe-folder.png" alt="Save recipe in folder" %}}

Once copied and saved, an initial customization is needed.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/15-recipe-needs-customization.png" alt="Customize recipe" %}}

You can see in the recipe's graph that there is an error. The highlighted step is the one causing the error.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/16-error.png" alt="Recipe error" %}}

The existing error is due to a missing field for the GitLab project.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/17-click-step-with-error.png" alt="Recipe error" %}}

Select your GitLab project in the step's settings.

{{% image src="/integrations/integration_builder/gitlab/18-select-gitlab-project.png" alt="Select GitLab project" %}}

### 6. Customize the Recipe

> Notice the first step in the recipe (the trigger) is about a DAST finding. We need to change it to a pentest finding.

Reviewer: If I understand correctly we copied a DAST-focused recipe to turn it into a pentest-focused one. 
This might be confusing to users, since there's already a recipe they can pick to cover pentest findings. I recommend rather choosing the pentest recipe from the beginning, in order to avoid having to do major adjustments.

Author: The recipe name for the pentest finding looked confusing to me. It looked like a state transition recipe. 
Now I understand what it does. Still confusing to any customer without our documentation.

Reviewer: Yes, I agree we should also consider renaming either recipe to avoid confusion. If we're having issues, our customers will too.

> To configure GitLab to create issues for new findings, you need three general steps:

Reviewer: This is still mentioning three steps, although I think we can leave it like that if we remove the Cobalt connection part.
